Laryngopharyngeal reflux, known as LPR,
is referred to as silent reflux.
That’s because you may not experience
the burning associated with
gastroesophageal reflux disease,
referred to as acid reflux or GERD.
In fact, you may not know you have a problem
until serious symptoms occur.
LPR takes place when you lie down
and the acid in your stomach slowly
seeps up your esophagus.
Typically, the upper and lower esophageal sphincters
prevents stomach acid from moving into the throat area.
But if this sphincter doesn’t close correctly,
the acid will touch the back of the throat
and burn the tongue, the uvula and mouth area.
This condition can also cause inflammation
or damage to the vocal cords
and rot your teeth.
Symptoms of LPR include:
Chronic sore throat
Hoarseness
Lump in throat
Constant need to clear throat
Postnasal drip
Trouble swallowing
Persistent cough
If any of these symptoms last more than a month,
you may have silent reflux.
In most cases, the condition can be treated by:
Elevating the head while sleeping
Reducing alcohol consumption
Avoiding late night eating and overeating
Losing weight
Taking antacids to avoid excess stomach acid
Surgery, when the condition is chronic